Order of Services for Sunday, January 30, 2022
32nd Sunday after Pentecost
Synaxis of the Three Great Ecumenical Teachers and Hierarchs: Basil the Great, Gregory the Theologian, and John Chrysostom

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 7 (Ps. 140/141)
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 7
6 stichera of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 4 and Tone 2
Glory… Three Hierarchs, Tone 6
Now and ever… Dogmatic Theotokion, Tone 7
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Old Testament Readings
Deuteronomy 1:8-11, 15-17
Deuteronomy 10:14-21
Wisdom of Solomon 3:1-9
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany

Litya
Stichera of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 2, Tone 6, Tone 8, and Tone 6
Glory… Three Hierarchs, Tone 6
Now and ever… Theotokion, Tone 6
Aposticha
Resurrectional Stichera, Tone 7
Glory… Three Hierarchs, Tone 2
Now and ever… Theotokion of the Forefeast of the Meeting, Tone 2
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers
Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
“Rejoice, O Virgin Theotokos…” (1x)
1st Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 1 (1x)
2nd Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 4 (1x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
[Psalm 33/34:1-10]
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 7
Glory… 2nd Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 4
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dismissal Theotokion, Tone 4
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 7
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 7
1st Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 1
Glory… 2nd Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 4
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dismissal Theotokion, Tone 4

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 7]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 7]
Polyeleos
Magnification
Evlogitaria: “Blessed art Thou, O Lord…”
Little Litany

[Ypakoe]
[Kathisma Hymns]
[Three Hierarchs (from after both Kathismas), Tone 5, Tone 4, Tone 3, and Tone 4]
[Glory… Three Hierarchs (from after the Polyeleos), Tone 4]
[Now and ever, Theotokion, Tone 3]
[Hymn of Degrees, Tone 7]
Prokeimenon, Tone 7: “Arise, O Lord my God, and let Thy hand be lifted up…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
10th Matins Gospel: (66) John 21:1-14
“Having Beheld the Resurrection…”
Psalm 50
Post-Gospel Stichera
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Resurrection, Tone 7
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
3 additional troparia from the Canon of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
2 troparia from the Canon of the Theotokos, Tone 7
Refrain: “Most holy Theotokos, save us!”
4 troparia from the 1st Canon of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 2
Refrain: “O holy Hierarchs, pray to God for us!”
4 troparia from the 2nd Canon of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 8
Refrain: “O holy Hierarchs, pray to God for us!”
Katavasia: From the Meeting of the Lord, Tone 3

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kontakion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 2]
[Ikos of the Three Hierarchs]
[Kathisma Hymns of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 8]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Ikos of the Resurrection

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is sung

After the Magnificat, continue with the Ninth Ode.

Little Litany
“Holy is the Lord…”, Tone 7
Exapostilaria:
10th Resurrectional Exapostilarion, Tone 2
1st Exapostilarion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 3
Glory… 2nd Exapostilarion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 3
Now and ever… 10th Resurrectional Exapostilarion Theotokion, Tone 2
Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 7
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 7
4 stichera of the Three Hierarchs (including “Glory…”, with verses taken from the Vespers Aposticha), Tone 5
Glory… 10th Gospel Sticheron, Tone 6
Now and ever… “Thou art most blessed…”, Tone 2
Great Doxology
“Today salvation…”
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparia: Resurrection; Glory… Three Hierarchs
Kontakion: Three Hierarchs (1st and 6th Hours) or Resurrection (3rd and 9th Hours)

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

At the Beatitudes:
6 troparia of the Resurrection, Tone 7
4 troparia from Ode 3 of the 1st Canon of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 2
Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Troparion of the Church (only if of Theotokos)
1st Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 1
2nd Troparion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 4
Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Glory… Kontakion of the Three Hierarchs, Tone 2
Now and ever… Kontakion of the Church (only if of Theotokos), or “Steadfast Protectress…”, Tone 6
Trisagion
Prokeimenon: Resurrection, Tone 7: “The Lord shall give strength to His people…” and Three Hierarchs, Tone 8: “Their proclamation has gone out into all the earth…”
Epistle: (280-ctr) 1 Timothy 1:15-17 and (334) Hebrews 13:7-16
Alleluia: Resurrection, Tone 7 and Three Hierarchs, Tone 4
Gospel: (62) Matthew 15:21-28 and (11) Matthew 5:14-19
Communion Hymn: “Praise the Lord from the heavens…” and “Their proclamation has gone out into all the earth…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.
