Order of Services for Sunday, August 6, 2023
9th Sunday after Pentecost
The Holy Transfiguration of our Lord, God, and Savior Jesus Christ

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 4 (Ps. 140/141)
8 stichera of the Feast, Tone 4
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 6
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Old Testament Readings
Exodus 24:12-18
Composite 15 (Exodus 33:11-23; 34:4-6, 8)
Composite 23 (I Kings 19:3-9, 11-13, 15-16)
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany
Litya
Stichera of the Feast, Tone 2
Glory… Feast, Tone 5
Now and ever… Feast, Tone 5

Aposticha
Stichera of the Feast, Tone 1
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 6
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers

Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 7 (3x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
[Psalm 33/34:1-10]
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 7
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 7
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 7 [(3x)]

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymn of the Feast, Tone 4]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymn of the Feast, Tone 4]
Polyeleos
Magnification
Little Litany

[Kathisma Hymn of the Feast, Tone 4]
“From my youth…”
Prokeimenon, Tone 4: “Tabor and Hermon...”
“Let everything that breathes…”
Gospel: (45) Luke 9:28-36
Psalm 50
Post-Gospel Stichera of the Feast, Tone 2, Tone 6, and Tone 5
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: 1st Canon of the Feast, Tone 4
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Transfiguration, O Lord!”
Troparia from 1st Canon of the Feast, Tone 4, repeating enough to make 7 additional
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Transfiguration, O Lord!”
Irmos: 2nd Canon of the Feast, Tone 8
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Transfiguration, O Lord!”
Troparia from 2nd Canon of the Feast, Tone 8, repeating enough to make 5 additional
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Transfiguration, O Lord!”
Katavasia: From the Exaltation of the Cross, Tone 8

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymn of the Feast, Tone 4]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 7
Ikos of the Feast

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is NOT sung, but immediately the Megalynarion and Irmos of the Ninth Ode

Little Litany
Exapostilarion of the Feast, Tone 3 [(3x)]

Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 4
4 stichera of the Feast, Tone 4
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 8

Great Doxology
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 7
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparion: Feast
Kontakion: Feast

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

Festal Antiphons
Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 7
Glory… now and ever… Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 7

Trisagion
Prokeimenon: Feast, Tone 4: “O Lord, how manifold are Thy works…”
Epistle: (65) 2 Peter 1:10-19
Alleluia: Feast, Tone 8
Gospel: (70) Matthew 17:1-9
Instead of “It is truly meet…”: “Magnify, O my soul, the Lord Who was transfigured…” and “Thy childbearing was without corruption…”
Communion Hymn: “O Lord, we will walk in the light of Thy countenance…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.

