Order of Services for Sunday, January 7, 2024
31st Sunday after Pentecost
Sunday After the Theophany
Afterfeast of the Theophany
Synaxis of the Holy Glorious Prophet, Forerunner, and Baptist John

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 6 (Ps. 140/141)
3 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 6
4 stichera of the Feast, Tone 2
3 stichera of the Forerunner, Tone 1
Glory… Forerunner, Tone 6
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dogmatic Theotokion, Tone 6
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany

[Litya]
[Stichera of the Feast, Tone 4]
[Glory… Feast, Tone 8]
[Now and ever… Feast, Tone 8]

Aposticha
Resurrectional Stichera, Tone 6
Glory… Forerunner, Tone 4
Now and ever… Feast, Tone 4
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers

Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
“Rejoice, O Virgin Theotokos…” (1x)
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1 (1x)
Troparion of the Forerunner, Tone 2 (1x)
[Blessing of the Loaves]
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
[Psalm 33/34:1-10]
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 6
Glory… Troparion of the Forerunner, Tone 2
Now and ever… Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 6
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 6 [(2x)]
Glory… Troparion of the Forerunner, Tone 2
Now and ever… Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 6]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 6]
Polyeleos
Evlogitaria: “Blessed art Thou, O Lord…”
[Little Litany]

[Ypakoe]
[Hymn of Degrees, Tone 6]
Prokeimenon, Tone 6: “O Lord, stir up Thy might…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
9th Matins Gospel: (65) John 20:19-31
“Having Beheld the Resurrection…”
Psalm 50
Post-Gospel Stichera
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Resurrection, Tone 6
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
3 additional troparia from the Canon of the Resurrection, Tone 6
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
3 troparia from the 1st Canon of the Feast, Tone 2
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Theophany, O Lord!”
3 troparia from the 2nd Canon of the Feast, Tone 2
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Theophany, O Lord!”
3 troparia from the Canon of the Forerunner, Tone 2
Refrain: “O holy Prophet, Forerunner, and Baptist, John, pray to God for us!”
Katavasia: Both from Theophany, Tone 2

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 4]
[Ikos of the Feast]
[Kathisma Hymn of the Feast (twice, with “Glory… now and ever…” in between)]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Forerunner, Tone 6
Ikos of the Forerunner

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is sung

After the Magnificat, continue with the Ninth Ode, but without the special refrains of the Feast and the Forerunner.

Little Litany
“Holy is the Lord…”, Tone 6
Exapostilaria:
9th Resurrectional Exapostilarion, Tone 2
Glory… Forerunner, Tone 3
Now and ever… Feast, Tone 3

Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 6
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 5
4 stichera of the Feast, with verses from the Vespers Aposticha, Tone 4
1 sticheron of the Forerunner (the Doxastichon, preceded by the verse “The righteous shall rejoice in the Lord, and shall hope in Him.”), Tone 6
Glory… 9th Gospel Sticheron, Tone 5
Now and ever… “Thou art most blessed…”, Tone 2

Great Doxology
“By rising from the tomb…”
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparia: Resurrection; Glory… Feast (1st and 6th Hours) or Forerunner (3rd and 9th Hours)
Kontakion: Feast (1st and 6th Hours) or Forerunner (3rd and 9th Hours)

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

At the Beatitudes:
4 troparia of the Resurrection, Tone 6
2 troparia from Ode 3 of the 1st Canon of the Feast, Tone 2
2 troparia from Ode 3 of the 2nd Canon of the Feast, Tone 2
4 troparia from Ode 6 of the Canon of the Forerunner, Tone 2

Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Resurrection, Tone 6
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1
Troparion of the Forerunner, Tone 2
Glory… Kontakion of the Forerunner, Tone 6
Now and ever… Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 4

Trisagion
Prokeimenon: Sunday After, Tone 1: “Let Thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us…” and Forerunner, Tone 7: “The righteous shall rejoice in the Lord…”
Epistle: (224-ctr) Ephesians 4:7-13 and (42) Acts 19:1-8
Alleluia: Sunday After, Tone 5, and Forerunner, Tone 5
Gospel: (8) Matthew 4:12-17 and (3) John 1:29-34
Instead of “It is truly meet…”: “Magnify, O my soul…” and “No tongue knows how to praise thee worthily…”
Communion Hymn: “Praise the Lord from the heavens…” and “The righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.

