Order of Services for Sunday, October 6, 2024
15th Sunday after Pentecost (3rd of Luke)
Glorification of St. Innocent, Metropolitan of Moscow, Enlightener of the Aleuts, and Apostle to the Americas
[Holy and Glorious Apostle Thomas] (Served whenever the Superior wishes)

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 6 (Ps. 140/141)
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 6
6 stichera of St. Innocent, Tone 2
Glory… St. Innocent, Tone 2
Now and ever… Dogmatic Theotokion, Tone 6
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Old Testament Readings
Composite 2
Composite 3
Composite 4
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany

Litya
1 sticheron of the Patron Saint of the Church
Stichera of St. Innocent, Tone 2 and Tone 6
Aposticha
Resurrectional Stichera, Tone 6
Glory… St. Innocent, Tone 6
Now and ever… Resurrectional Aposticha Theotokion, Tone 6
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers
Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
“Rejoice, O Virgin Theotokos…” (2x)
Troparion of St. Innocent, Tone 4 (or Tone 2) (1x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
Psalm 33/34:1-10
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 6
Glory… Troparion of St. Innocent, Tone 4 (or Tone 2)
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dismissal Theotokion, Tone 4 (or Tone 2)
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 6
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 6 [(2x)]
Glory… Troparion of St. Innocent, Tone 4 (or Tone 2)
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dismissal Theotokion, Tone 4 (or Tone 2)

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 6]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 6]
Polyeleos
Magnification
Evlogitaria: “Blessed art Thou, O Lord…”
Little Litany

[Ypakoe]
[Kathisma Hymns]
[St. Innocent, from after the Kathismas, Tone 8]
[Glory… St. Innocent, from after the Polyeleos, Tone 8]
[Now and ever… Theotokion, Tone 8]
[Hymn of Degrees, Tone 6]
Prokeimenon, Tone 6: “O Lord, stir up Thy might…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
Gospel: (112) Luke 23:1-12
“Having Beheld the Resurrection…”
Psalm 50
Post-Gospel Stichera
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Resurrection, Tone 6
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
3 additional troparia from the Canon of the Resurrection, Tone 6
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
2 troparia from the Canon of the Theotokos, Tone 6
Refrain: “Most Holy Theotokos, save us!”
6 troparia from the Canon of St. Innocent, Tone 4
Refrain: “O holy Father Innocent, pray to God for us!”
Katavasia: “I shall open my mouth…”, Tone 4

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kontakion of St. Innocent, Tone 2]
[Ikos of St. Innocent]
[Kathisma Hymns of St. Innocent Tone 4]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 6
Ikos of the Resurrection

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is sung
After the Magnificat, continue with the Ninth Ode.

Little Litany
“Holy is the Lord…”, Tone 6
Exapostilaria:
4th Resurrectional Exapostilarion, Tone 2
Glory… Exapostilarion of St. Innocent, Tone 2
Now and ever… 4th Resurrectional Exapostilarion Theotokion, Tone 2

Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 6
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 6
4 stichera of St. Innocent, including “Glory…” and verses (taken from the Vespers Aposticha), Tone 4 and Tone 6
Glory… 4th Gospel Sticheron, Tone 4
Now and ever… “Thou art most blessed…”, Tone 2

Great Doxology
“By rising from the tomb…”
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparia: Resurrection; Glory… St. Innocent
Kontakion: St. Innocent (1st and 6th Hours) or Resurrection (3rd and 9th Hours)

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

At the Beatitudes:
6 troparia of the Resurrection, Tone 6
4 troparia from Ode 3 of the Canon of St. Innocent, Tone 4

Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Resurrection, Tone 6
Troparion of the Church (if of Theotokos)
Troparion of St. Innocent, Tone 4 (or Tone 2)
Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 6
Glory… Kontakion of St. Innocent, Tone 2
Now and ever… Kontakion of the Church (if of Theotokos), or “Steadfast Protectress…”, Tone 6

Trisagion
Prokeimenon: Resurrection, Tone 6: “O Lord, save Thy people…” and St. Innocent, Tone 1: “My mouth shall speak wisdom…”
Epistle: (176) 2 Corinthians 4:6-15 and (318) Hebrews 7:26-8:2
Alleluia: Resurrection, Tone 6 and St. Innocent, Tone 2
Gospel: (30) Luke 7:11-16 and (36) John 10:9-16
Communion Hymn: “Praise the Lord from the heavens…” and “The righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.

