Order of Services for Sunday, September 14, 2025
14th Sunday after Pentecost
The Universal Exaltation of the Precious and Life-giving Cross

Note: The service to the Resurrection is omitted.

(Before the vigil, the celebrant transfers the precious Cross to the Holy Altar Table, accompanied by the singing of the Troparion, “O Lord, save Thy people…”, and the Kontakion, “As Thou wast voluntarily raised…”.)

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 6 (Ps. 140/141)
8 stichera of the Feast, Tone 6
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 2
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Old Testament Readings
Exodus 15:22-16:1
Proverbs 3:11-18
Isaiah 60:11-16
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany
Litya
Stichera of the Feast, Tone 1, Tone 2, and Tone 4

Aposticha
Stichera of the Feast, Tone 5
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 8
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers

Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1 (3x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
Psalm 33/34:1-10
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1 (1x)
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 1
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1 (3x)

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns of the Feast, Tone 1]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns of the Feast, Tone 6]
Polyeleos
Magnification

Little Litany
[Kathisma Hymns of the Feast, Tone 8]
[“From my youth…”, Tone 4]
Prokeimenon, Tone 4: “All the ends of the earth…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
Matins Gospel of the Feast: (42-ctr) John 12:28-36
“Having Beheld the Resurrection…”
Psalm 50
Festal Post-Gospel Stichera
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Feast, Tone 8 [(2x)]
Refrain: “Glory to Thy precious Cross, O Lord!”
The troparia are repeated to make up 12 total.
Katavasia: Feast, Tone 8

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymn of the Feast, Tone 4]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 4
Ikos of the Feast

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is NOT sung, but immediately “Magnify, O my soul…” and the Irmos of Ode 9 and the rest, in order.

Little Litany
Exapostilaria:
1st Exapostilarion of the Feast, Tone 2 (2x)
Glory… now and ever… 2nd Exapostilarion of the Feast, Tone 2

The priest vests in all his vestments.

Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 8
4 stichera of the Feast, Tone 8
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 6

Great Doxology
As the Great Doxology ends, the solemn procession of the Cross takes place. As the clergy and faithful venerate the Cross, the veneration hymns are sung in Tone 2, Tone 5, Tone 6, and Tone 8. After all the faithful have venerated the Cross, we continue:
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparion: Feast
Kontakion: Feast

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

Festal Antiphons

Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1
Glory… now and ever… Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 4
Instead of the Trisagion: “Before Thy Cross…”
Prokeimenon: Feast, Tone 7: “Extol the Lord our God…”
Epistle: (125) 1 Corinthians 1:18-24
Alleluia: Feast, Tone 1
Gospel: (60) John 19:6-11, 13-20, 25-28, 30-35
Instead of “It is truly meet…”: “Magnify, O my soul…” and “Thou art a mystical Paradise…”
Communion Hymn: “The light of Thy countenance…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.

