Order of Services for Sunday, June 22, 2025
2nd Sunday after Pentecost
All Saints of America

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 1 (Ps. 140/141)
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 1
6 stichera of All Saints of America, Tone 2 and Tone 6
Glory… All Saints of America, Tone 5
Now and ever… Dogmatic Theotokion, Tone 1
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
3 Old Testament Readings
Isaiah 43:9-14
Wisdom of Solomon 3:1-9
Wisdom of Solomon 5:15-6:3
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany
Litya
1 sticheron of the Patron Saint of the Temple
2 stichera of All Saints of America, Tone 5
Glory… Now and ever… All Saints of America, Tone 5

Aposticha
Resurrectional Stichera, Tone 1
Glory… All Saints of America, Tone 4
Now and ever… Theotokion, for All Saints of America, Tone 5
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers

Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
“Rejoice, O Virgin Theotokos…” (2x)
Troparion of All Saints of America, Tone 8 (1x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
[Psalm 33/34:1-10]
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 1
Glory… Troparion of All Saints of America, Tone 8
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dismissal Theotokion, Tone 8
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 1
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 1 [(2x)]
Glory… Troparion of All Saints of America, Tone 8
Now and ever… Resurrectional Dismissal Theotokion, Tone 8

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 1]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 1]
Polyeleos
Magnification
Evlogitaria: “Blessed art Thou, O Lord…”
Little Litany
[Ypakoe]
[Kathisma Hymns for All Saints of America]
[Hymn of Degrees, Tone 1]
Prokeimenon, Tone 1: “’I will now arise,’ says the Lord…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
2nd Matins Gospel: (70) Mark 16:1-8
“Having Beheld the Resurrection…”
Psalm 50
Post-Gospel Stichera
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Resurrection, Tone 1
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
4 troparia of the Resurrection, Tone 1
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
2 troparia of the Theotokos, Tone 1
Refrain: “Most Holy Theotokos, save us!”
8 troparia of All Saints of America
Refrain: “O All Saints of America, pray to God for us!”
Katavasia: “I shall open my mouth…”, Tone 4

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kontakion of All Saints of America, Tone 3]
[Ikos of All Saints of America]
[Kathisma Hymns of All Saints of America]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 1
Ikos of the Resurrection

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is sung
After the Magnificat, continue with the Ninth Ode.

Little Litany
“Holy is the Lord…”, Tone 1
Exapostilaria:
2nd Resurrectional Exapostilarion
Glory… All Saints of America
Now and ever… 2nd Resurrectional Theotokion

Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 1
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 1
4 stichera of All Saints of America, with their verses
Glory… 2nd Gospel Sticheron, Tone 2
Now and ever… “Thou art most blessed…”, Tone 2
Great Doxology
“Today salvation…”
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparia: Resurrection; Glory… All Saints
Kontakion: All Saints

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

At the Beatitudes:
4 troparia of the Resurrection, Tone 1
4 troparia from Ode 6 of the Canon of All Saints of America
Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Resurrection, Tone 1
Troparion of All Saints of America, Tone 8
Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 1
Glory… Kontakion of All Saints of America, Tone 3
Now and ever… “Steadfast Protectress…”, Tone 6

Trisagion
Prokeimenon: Resurrection, Tone 1: “Let Thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us…” and All Saints of America, Tone 7: “Precious in the sight of the Lord…”
Epistle: (81-ctr) Romans 2:10-16 and (330) Hebrews 11:33-12:2
Alleluia: Resurrection, Tone 1, and All Saints of America, Tone 1
Gospel: (9) Matthew 4:18-23 and (10) Matthew 4:25-5:12
Communion Hymn: “Praise the Lord from the heavens…” and “Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.

