Order of Services for Sunday, February 2, 2025
32nd Sunday after Pentecost
The Meeting of Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the Temple
Sunday of Zacchaeus

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 7 (Ps. 140/141)
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 7
6 stichera of the Feast, Tone 2
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 6
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Old Testament Readings
Composite 6
Isaiah 6:1-12
Composite 7
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany

Litya
Stichera of the Feast, Tone 1, Tone 2, and Tone 4
Glory… Feast, Tone 5
Now and ever… Feast, Tone 5

Aposticha
Resurrectional Stichera, Tone 7
Glory… now and ever… Feast, Tone 8
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers

Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served:
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1 (3x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
Psalm 33/34:1-10
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below.

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served:
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 7
Glory… now and ever… Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1
Vespers Dismissal

(Sunday Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 7
Resurrectional Troparion, Tone 7 [(2x)]
Glory… now and ever… Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 7]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns from the Octoechos, Tone 7]
Polyeleos
Magnification
Evlogitaria: “Blessed art Thou, O Lord…”
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns]
[Feast (from after the Kathismas), Tone 1]
[Glory… now and ever… Feast (from after the Polyeleos), Tone 4
[Hymn of Degrees, Tone 7]
Prokeimenon, Tone 4: “I will commemorate Thy name…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
Matins Gospel of the Feast: (8) Luke 2:25-32
“Having Beheld the Resurrection…”
Psalm 50
Post-Gospel Stichera of the Feast
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, after the Irmos, only two troparia from each Canon are used. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Resurrection, Tone 7
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
3 additional troparia from the Canon of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Refrain: “Glory to Thy holy Resurrection, O Lord!”
2 troparia from the Canon of the Theotokos, Tone 7
Refrain: “Most holy Theotokos, save us!”
8 troparia from the Canon of the Feast, Tone 3
Refrain: “Glory to Thee, O our God, glory to Thee!”
Katavasia: Feast, Tone 3

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 7]
[Ikos of the Resurrection]
[Kathisma Hymns of the Feast, Tone 4]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 1
Ikos of the Feast

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is sung

After the Magnificat, continue with the Ninth Ode, but WITHOUT the Festal refrains.

Little Litany
“Holy is the Lord…”, Tone 7

Exapostilaria:
10th Resurrectional Exapostilarion, Tone 2
Glory… now and ever… Exapostilarion of the Feast, Tone 3

Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 7
4 stichera of the Resurrection, Tone 7
4 stichera of the Feast, with Festal verses, Tone 4
Glory… Feast, Tone 6
Now and ever… “Thou art most blessed…”, Tone 2

Great Doxology
“Today salvation…”
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Matins Dismissal
[Glory… now and ever… 10th Gospel Sticheron, Tone 6]
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparion and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparia: Resurrection; Glory… Feast
Kontakion: Resurrection (1st and 6th Hours) or Feast (3rd and 9th Hours)

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

At the Beatitudes:
6 troparia of the Resurrection, Tone 7
4 troparia from Ode 3 of the Canon of the Feast, Tone 3

Troparia and Kontakia:
Troparion of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Troparion of the Feast, Tone 1
Glory… Kontakion of the Resurrection, Tone 7
Now and ever… Kontakion of the Feast, Tone 1

Trisagion
Prokeimenon: Resurrection, Tone 7: “The Lord shall give strength to His people…” and Feast, Tone 3: “My soul doth magnify the Lord…”
Epistle: (285-ctr) 1 Timothy 4:9-15 and (316) Hebrews 7:7-17
Alleluia: Resurrection, Tone 7 and Feast, Tone 8
Gospel: (94) Luke 19:1-10 and (7) Luke 2:22-40
Instead of “It is truly meet…”: “O Virgin Theotokos…” and “In the shadow and letter…”
Communion Hymn: “Praise the Lord from the heavens…” and “I will receive the cup of salvation…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.

