# Palm Sunday — 04/05/2026

Order of Services for Sunday, April 5, 2026
Entry of our Lord into Jerusalem – Palm Sunday

NOTE: The rubrics presented below are the commonly accepted order. However, practices may vary with local practices or dioceses. The ruling bishop should be consulted for any specific questions regarding the accepted order of services.

NOTE: Bracketed items are commonly omitted in parish practice.

Vigil
(Great Vespers at a Vigil)
(If Great Vespers is served alone, not at a Vigil, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Priest: “Glory to the holy consubstantial…”
“Amen. Come, let us worship…”
Psalm 103/104
Great Litany
[First Kathisma, or] “Blessed is the Man…”
Little Litany
Lord, I Call, Tone 6 (Ps. 140/141) 
10 stichera of Palm Sunday, Tone 6
Glory… Palm Sunday, Tone 6
Now and ever… Palm Sunday, Tone 6
Gladsome Light
Saturday Evening Prokeimenon, “The Lord is King…”
Old Testament Readings (should be read from LXX texts)
Genesis 49:1-2, 8-12
Zephaniah 3:14-19
Zechariah 9:9-15
Augmented Litany
“Vouchsafe, O Lord…”
Evening Litany

Litya
5 stichera of Palm Sunday, Tone 1 and Tone 2
Glory… Now and ever… Palm Sunday, Tone 3
Aposticha
Palm Sunday, Tone 8
Glory… Palm Sunday, Tone 6
Now and ever… Palm Sunday, Tone 6
“Lord, Now Lettest…”
Trisagion Prayers

Concluding Troparia and Dismissal:

If a Vigil is Served, or if Litya was done at Great Vespers:
1st Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 1 (2x)
2nd Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 4 (1x)
Blessing of the Loaves
“Blessed be the Name…” (3x)
[Psalm 33/34:1-10]
Priest: “The blessing of the Lord…”
“Amen.” And begin Matins with the Six Psalms, as outlined below. (Or, if Great Vespers with Litya, conclude with the Festal Vespers Dismissal.)

Or, if Great Vespers alone is served, without Litya:
1st Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 1
Glory… Now and Ever… 2nd Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 4
Festal Vespers Dismissal

(Festal Matins at a Vigil)
(If Matins is served alone, begin with the Typical Beginning, which can be found at https://www.oca.org/liturgics/rubrics/horologion.)
Six Psalms
Great Litany
“God is the Lord…,” Tone 1
1st Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 1 (2x)
Glory… Now and Ever… 2nd Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 4

[Kathisma 2]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns for Palm Sunday, Tone 4]
[Kathisma 3]
[Little Litany]
[Kathisma Hymns for Palm Sunday, Tone 4 and Tone 1]
Polyeleos 
Magnification
[Little Litany]

[Kathisma Hymns for Palm Sunday, Tone 8]
“From my youth…”
Prokeimenon, Tone 4, “From the mouths of babes and infants…”
“Let everything that breathes…”
Gospel: (83) Matthew 21:1-11, 15-17
Psalm 50
While Psalm 50 is read, the priest censes the palms and willows, and at the conclusion of Psalm 50, says the Prayer of Blessing and sprinkles the palms and willows with Holy Water.
After-Gospel Stichera of Palm Sunday
Prayer of Intercession, “O God, save Thy people…”

Canons (NOTE: in common parish practice, each troparion of the Canon is sung only once. Before the final troparion, “Glory… now and ever…” is used as the refrain.)
Irmos: Palm Sunday, Tone 4 (2x)
Troparia of the Canon of Palm Sunday, Tone 4 (each repeated four or six times in order to make up the number twelve)
Refrain: “Glory to Thee, our God, glory to Thee!”
Katavasia: repeat the Irmos

[After the Third Ode:]
[Little Litany]
[Ypakoe of Palm Sunday, Tone 6]

After the Sixth Ode:
[Little Litany]
Kontakion of Palm Sunday, Tone 6
Ikos of Palm Sunday

After the Eighth Ode:
The Magnificat is NOT sung, but immediately the Irmos of the Ninth Ode, continuing with the rest of Ode 9

Little Litany
“Holy is the Lord…”, Tone 4
Psalms 148-150: “Let everything that breathes…” Tone 4
6 stichera of Palm Sunday, Tone 4
Glory… Now and ever… Palm Sunday, Tone 6
Great Doxology
1st Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 1
Augmented Litany
Morning Litany
Festal Matins Dismissal
NOTE: The First Hour follows immediately. A small Festal dismissal concludes the First Hour. See below for the Troparia and Kontakion.

The Hours
Troparia: 1st of Palm Sunday, Glory… 2nd of Palm Sunday
Kontakion: Palm Sunday

Divine Liturgy
NOTE: Listed below are only the variable portions of the Liturgy

Festal Antiphons
Troparia and Kontakia:
1st Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 1
Glory… 2nd Troparion of Palm Sunday, Tone 4
Now and ever… Kontakion of Palm Sunday, Tone 6

Prokeimenon: Palm Sunday, Tone 4, “Blessed is He that comes in the Name of the Lord…”
Epistle: (247) Philippians 4:4-9
Alleluia: Palm Sunday, Tone 1
Gospel: (41) John 12:1-18
Instead of “It is truly meet…”: Irmos of Ode 9, “God is the Lord…”
Communion Hymn: “Blessed is He that comes…”

Prepared by the Department of Liturgical Music and Translations of the Orthodox Church in America.
